⛩️ The first method of creating joy and happiness is to cast off, **to leave behind.** There is a kind of joy that comes from letting go. Many of us are bound to so many things. We believe these things are necessary for our survival, our security, and our happiness. But many of these things—or more precisely, **our beliefs about their utter necessity—are really obstacles for our joy and happiness.** Imagine you’re a city dweller taking a weekend trip out to the countryside. If you live in a big metropolis, there’s a lot of noise, dust, pollution, and odors, but also a lot of opportunities and excitement. One day, a friend coaxes you into getting away for a couple of days. At first you may say, “I can’t. I have too much work. I might miss an important call.” But finally he convinces you to leave, and an hour or two later, you find yourself in the countryside. **You see open space. You see the sky, and you feel the breeze on your cheeks. Happiness is born from the fact that you could leave the city behind. If you hadn’t left, how could you experience that kind of joy? You needed to let go**

📜 One day the Buddha was sitting with some of his monks in the woods. They had just come back from an almsround and were ready to share a mindful lunch together. A farmer passed by, looking distraught. He asked the Buddha, “Monks, have you seen some cows going by here?” “What cows?” the Buddha responded. “Well,” the man said. “I have four cows and I don’t know why, but this morning they all ran away. I also have two acres of sesame. This year the insects ate the entire crop. I have lost everything: my harvest and my cows. I feel like killing myself.” The Buddha said, “Dear friend, we have been sitting here almost an hour and we have not seen any cows passing by. Maybe you should go and look in the other direction.” When the farmer was gone, the Buddha looked at his friends and smiled knowingly. [[00 Ascetism|“Dear friends, you are very lucky,” he said. “You don’t have any cows to lose.”]]

> One of the biggest cows that we have is our **[[narrow idea of happiness]]**. You may suffer just because of your idea; and you continue to suffer until, one day, you are capable of releasing the idea and right away you feel happy.

⛩️ Consider practicing to release your cows. Take a piece of paper and **write down the names of your cows**, the things you think of as crucial for your well-being. Perhaps this week you can start by releasing just one, perhaps two. Or perhaps each one takes a year or more. **The more cows you release, the more joyful and happy you become.**